---
layout: post
title:      "Why I Chose to Study Software Engineering"
date:       2020-01-26 13:53:43 -0500
permalink:  why_i_chose_to_become_a_software_engineer
---

Before the end of high school, most people aren't sure about what to do after their time after graduation. For me, it wasn't hard to think about what I wanted to do after high school, as I already knew what I wanted to do, but which aspect of it to do. This thing I wanted to do was game design; on its own, making a game has many elements to it, but ultimately I've chosen the programming side of it to do after looking into my different paths. 

At first, programming seemed like an odd choice to go off of when there were different and more creative options to make a game, like art, animation, music, and sound effects, however, going into it, programming allowed me to take all of that and combine it together. After all, to make a game, the programming is what makes the mechanics of a game, combines it with the animation to create the character in play do what their animation intends, and makes the feel of how a character feels in their movement. A game's code takes everything that everything else had been designed and puts it all together to truly bring a game's world, characters, and animations, and music to put it all into the interactive state that allows it to be fun. In my eyes, bringing every aspect together and seeing everything work together and become an interactive and fun experience was more fun than just making the art, music, animation, and sounds for a game. When I started coding, seeing what I could create and make work, in the end, was the most fun, as after going through hurdles of troublesome errors, and figuring out how to structure my program was satisfying.

When I first started to code, it was more of a elective I was curious about, as programming was a part of game design I never tried at that point in time. During my time in my first programming class, I did struggle with understanding how everything worked, and how code should be structured and read; however, this was something I overcame with experience, and I grew to enjoy the way of thinking programming introduced me to. Every project I did during my time with learning how to program was treated like a logical puzzle, one that would challenge you to think about each piece of the problem and put it together, and with this puzzle, every small step brings you closer to a satisfying conclusion. The conclusion of a programming project and seeing it work the way intended after building it up for so long was the most fun I had with programming, as puzzles were something I loved. Once a project is over, I always come back to see how I can improve it by challenging myself to see how I can do things differently. As time went on, programming became more than just that elective I picked in high school, to now something I enjoy and want to do as a career and can use as a way for me to help me achieve my dream of becoming a game designer, or at least give me a way to design a game.

In brief, I chose software engineering as something to do because I love programming, and it allows me to achieve my dream of making a game, or becoming a game designer every step of the way when I improve in it. In other ways, programming allows me to be very creative with the way I can create my projects, like a puzzle with many methods to solve it. Overall, software engineering allows me to take a step into a career that will allow me to do something I love doing and will enable me to take a large step towards achieving my dream of becoming a game designer.
